For the Viewer

The Following is a tutorial for educational purposes.
Remember, information first, music and frags later.

I did not come up with any of this, I am just relaying it the way I think I should.

It contains a lot of old footage, but keep in mind the point of this video.

I highly recommend watching in HD. Adjust your volume and enjoy!

Hey there... [00:00:29]
So I'm here to talk to you about stabbing; knife work. It's fancy and everything, but it's mostly a public server thing to do, on unaware players. You'd usually get into a bad situation with a wary player and not be able to do the same thing. But really, I've found that all of this, is just because stabbing stopped developing at one point. Making a lot of old techniques seem silly nowadays, and a lot of spies have tossed aside stabbing altogether. But back then, I found this one spy. Watching his videos at the time was just something amazing. I saw him getting himself into one of the sitatuations. But he managed to pull through, with something I couldn't understand. I asked him what it was, and he told me "Circle Strafe Stab." [00:01:25]

[00:01:36]That was a long time ago. Nowadays, a lot of people know about it, and have been doing it themselves. But there are a lot of things I haven't seen out there. Things that would solve all of our problems, and things that people just don't know. So I put together this entire series of tutorials, to get it out there. It's everything I know. [00:01:58]

[00:02:01] Well, now before learning how to do circlestrafing, we first need to understand why we actually need it. I mean, we already have this perfectly good, ground level technique at our disposal. Why would we need another? As it turns out, there are some special reasons for it. When you go for a matador, and the guy follows you with W, he follows you this way, and he gets stabbed, thats what pretty much happens in a nutshell. Now, when someone is strafe running at you, he's holding W and a strafe key, it makes him cut the turn, to get to the same place that he would get to with W, just a little faster. But what it also means is that, once you strafe back, he's too far away from you to actually stab. Now in addition to all of this, there's him aiming at you, and since a strafe key has been added to this whole aiming equation, it means they have to move their mouse less then if they were using purely the mouse to aim. Now, this is hardly strafe aiming, and we'll get to that later, but what this means, is that even if you run at them and get close enough, they don't turn enough at the right timing to get stabbed, to get matadored. Now, it can look to the both of you like the stab should've worked, but in reality, it was just out of reach. The other player doesn't even really have to think about it, just by the fact that he's strafing at you, you can't normally matador them. It still somewhat works on players who are inconsistent with their strafes or who have poor strafes, which is why matadors can still work, but mostly in pubs and not even that much. But in addition to all of that, I've found that circlestrafing does work on these exact players. I didn't know what it was, but, it just seems like, when you usually go for a matador and fail, you'd go for a circlestrafing and win. It can get really really close, but you still won't get the matador, which is why I've come to these conclusions. Against a player who has a consistent and good strafe, no matter how much you try, you won't be able to stab him by leading him into a matador. But I've found that these exact flaws that this stab has, are the exact gains of the other. This is my solution. But it's not that simple, it's not just a technique to replace matadors. By experimenting, I've found that there's a lot more behind all this. So let's get started. [00:04:53]

[00:04:55] Well if you want me to explain the execution all in one sentence, strafe in one direction and eventually stab. That's it. But no one would really need an explanation if it was really that simple. For example, one thing that confuses a lot of people about this stab is this very idea. There's no deception, you don't change directions, you only go one way. Hell, sometimes you even move across some wall or across something, which makes it even more predictable, so how can it even work? Now you probably already know this, but circle strafing only works on people who are strafing, and strafing has a lot of things to it that you might not know about, like understanding that strafing can also be a form of running, as opposed to being what you normally think strafing is. Strafing has a lot of forms to it. So before we talk about this stab, I wanna talk about strafing itself, and how it can relate to spy. Personally, I think its crucial to understand the mechanics of movements, before trying to exploit them, so, there we have it. By the end of this next section, you're not supposed to know how to pull the stab. It's just explaining a mechanic. But really, this is something I've been wanting to talk about for a long time. It's always been there, you can see for yourself, but it's something that I wanted to explain. You usually only know this when you slow it down, but; lets say you got a circle strafe stab. The guy you stabbed, while it was happening, flicks his view at you, and then away from you, in this weird kind of way. Why does this happen? [00:06:32] 

[00:06:33] It always happens with all of them, so I know it's not like it's one crazy guy spazzing his mouse all over the place. And it's not like they're aimless and they can't look at you straight so they have to look too much at you and then away from you again like this. It's none of that, so, what is it? Lets take a look at this guy as he's strafing. Try to understand what's going on. Now, as he's strafing, he obviously has to move his mouse, to stay on target as well, moves in an arc. Creating that semi-circular movement. Now if his target moves, this motion repeats itself, as you move your mouse back and forth. This is what we're seeing here, it's a core mechanic of strafing, which makes it possible. I call it "adjusting". Now, average players will adjust at you at least at two points. The first being at when they spot you, looks at you and then looks away, and the second being when you get real close to them, looks away. This last moment is the crucial point of your circlestrafe. It determines whether you get behind him, or he gets behind you. It's not like he was trying to get behind you, you're just running at him and forcing one of these two results. So essentially, every circlestrafe turns into this battle of who gets behind who. Now when he does get behind you, it will just look like he was looking at you, very naturally. But you have to remember that when he looks at you, and he's out of your view, he has to look back, creating that semi-circle movement. What you're doing is practically cutting them off mid-circle. It's not called "circle strafe stab" because you move around in circles sometimes. I think that you'll find that those are the worst stabs you'll get. It's called "circle strafe stab" because the other player that you're facing is using circling motions, he's adjusting. Let's take a look at this pyro here. I go for a stab on him and he gets really far behind me and he even airblasts.  The next time I try the same thing, but this time, he gets behind me again, but since he just looked at me, he has to look back. And since I'm still moving, I can still slip by. This is how circle strafe stab essentially exploits the other player having to adjust to look at you. This is why it makes sense for players who just turned at you to turn away. This is what makes it possible to stab someone even though you're only moving in one direction. Unlike the spasms for people who are just running at you with W, that only depend on how you're moving, the spasms of a person who are strafing happen for a reason, and regardless of what you're doing. They also happen without the player knowing about it. For example, this guy complained about running out of mouse space, about running out of wire, while tracking me. Now of course, he doesn't realize that at the last moment, he was actually swinging his mouse away from me. Now this happens all the time, and it's why people can get very confused when you circlestrafe them. One moment you're on their view, and the next moment is a blur. Usually happens very fast, too. When you strafe, your fingers predict that the guy you are tracking will stay in front of you. I mean, that's the whole point. For you, it's just natural aim, you don't notice yourself spazzing like this. You're just trying to look at this spy and keep good distance from him.[00:10:07]

